\input texinfo   @c -*-texinfo-*-
@c %**start of header
@setfilename xdelimitarea.info
@settitle xdelimitarea
@c %**end of header

@c Summary Description and Copyright
@ifinfo
This document describes xdelimitarea, an X Windows
utility for delimiting an arbitrary rectangular area
on your computer screen.

Copyright @copyright{} 2002 Free Software Foundation, Inc.
@end ifinfo

@c Title and Copyright
@titlepage
@sp 10
@title xdelimitarea

@c The following two commands start the copyright page.
@page
@vskip 0pt plus 1filll
Copyright @copyright{} 2002 Free Software Foundation, Inc.
@end titlepage

@c Output the table of the contents at the beginning.
@contents

@c Top Node and Master Menu
@ifnottex
@node Top, Origins, (dir), (dir)
@top What is xdelimitarea?
@code{xdelimitarea} is an X Windows utility that provides
a non-intrusive way to find out the position (with
respect to the root window) and the dimensions of
an arbitrary rectangular area on your computer screen.
This utility could be helpful to, say, GUI or web
designers who need to know precisely the location
and dimensions of some visual component on the screen.
@end ifnottex

@menu
* Origins::                Program origins.
* How it works::           Program operation.
* Command-line options::   Run-time options.
* X Resources::            Allowable X Windows resources.
* Concept Index::          Index to special topics.
@end menu

@c Body
@node Origins, How it works, Top, Top
@chapter Origins
@cindex origins

Tom Tromey first suggested this idea to me in 1993 when
I was developing the rendering code for a data-analysis
package called the SigniScope.  Other ideas in @code{xdelimitarea}
(as well as some code) are borrowed from Jamie Zawinski's
@code{xscreensaver} program.

This package was developed under Redhat 7.3 in the country
of Uganda.  Thanks to AED <http://www.aed.org> for donating
the computer equipment and the Internet hook-up where I work.

@node How it works, Command-line options, Origins, Top
@chapter How it works
@cindex program operation

After you have installed the package, just type @code{xdelimitarea}
from your command-line.  Visually, nothing of interest happens.
Crucially, however, @code{xdelimitarea} has grabbed your keyboard,
and the only graceful way to exit now is to either type 'q', 'Q', or
'Control-c', if that is what you want to do.

To delimit some area on the screen, just click Button1 on your
mouse and drag.  You should see a small window pop up that reads
out the location (with respect to the root window) and the
dimensions of the area you have outlined.  That's all there
is to it!

@node Command-line options, X Resources, How it works, Top
@chapter Command-line options
@cindex program options

The possible command-line options for @code{xdelimitarea} are:

@itemize @bullet
@item
@code{-help} is used to find out what command-line options are
possible.

@item
@code{-fg} is used to specify the color of the text drawn
in the readout window as you delimit some region on your
computer screen.

@item
@code{-bg} is used to specify the background color of the
readout window.

@item
@code{-font} is used to specify the name of the font used
to render text in the readout window.

@end itemize

With the exception of @code{-help}, all command-line options
can alternatively be specified as X Windows resources in,
for example, your @code{.Xdefaults} file.  @xref{X Resources},
for details.

@node X Resources, Concept Index, Command-line options, Top
@chapter X Resources
@cindex X Windows resources

The readout window for @code{xdelimitarea} can be configured
with X Windows resources by, for example, adding suitable
lines to your @code{.Xdefaults} file.

@itemize @bullet
@item
Specify the default background for the readout window by
adding a line like this:

  @example
  xdelimitarea.*.background:         green
  @end example
  @cindex background

@item
Specify the default foreground for the readout window by
adding a line like this:

  @example
  xdelimitarea.*.foreground:         red
  @end example
  @cindex foreground

@item
Specify the default font for the readout window by
adding a line like this:

  @example
  xdelimitarea.*.font:         -adobe-helvetica-bold-*-normal-*-12-*-*-*-*-*-*-*
  @end example
  @cindex font

@end itemize

@node Concept Index,  , X Resources, Top
@unnumbered Concept Index

@printindex cp

@bye
